In this section, let's move on to looking at the Game Mode class. This is the heart of the gaming grade.
It defines the rules of the game, gameplay settings, how many players, bots participate in the game.
How long a round lasts, how many rounds there are.
What are the conditions for the end of the game.
Game Mode also calculates various game statistics.
Roughly speaking, this class is a kind of game manager.
Our own Game Mode class already exists.
In it, we have overridden various gameplay classes.
Pawn class, HUD, controller.
All these classes are spawned in Game Mode.
That is, we did not spawn the base classes manually.
Each Game Mode class is associated with a level.
All this time we have been working with you in our test level.
A little later we will add additional levels, and for now, for example, we can create a level via File -> New Level.
Select Default from the menu.
We start the game. Empty settings create Game Mode by default - Game Mode Base. Also DeafaultPawn.
This can be seen in the level object tree.
If we set our STUGameMode in the settings, then all our classes will be spawned: HUD, Character, Controller, and so on.
We can also change some classes, for example, set the default HUD.
As a result, our interface will not be displayed.
Thus, each level can be customized with its own classes.
At the same time keeping the general logic of the game.
There are actually two Game Mode classes in the Unreal Engine.
The first is the base class, GameModeBase.
Our Game Mode is inherited directly from it.
And there is also a second class called simply GameMode.
It also inherits from the GameModeBase class and extends the functionality of the base class.
The logic of the match state of the game is added to this class.
We will not touch this class. Let's create our own match states.
I highly recommend that you study the Unreal Engine source code. It will be difficult at first.
Step by step, as you learn the engine, everything will fall into place.
We'll walk you through many of the GameModeBase functions.
Let's see how they work, in what sequence they are called, what information we can get about the state of the game,
how to pause the game, how to restart, and so on.
Let's get started!